                          How to ensure the quality of a software system

                                        13126104 刘凯

In this article, on the basis of the project I worked as an intern in TR and the content of this course, 
I will talk about how to ensure the quality of a software system.

First of all, what is the quality of a software system? I agree with a definition that is conformance to 
requirements. Of course there is a narrow definition: lack of "bugs" in the product. This article mainly 
focuses on how to reduce product bug on quality assurance. 

There are many quality assurance methods, testing, Software Review, etc. we are more familiar with testing 
technology, but software review technology cannot be ignored.

I worked as a developer from the start of a project for about one year during the internship in 
TomsonReuters. I got some understanding of how to ensure the quality of product at that time, and through 
this course I also transformed it into theory.

In the project development process, the main method of quality assurance is testing which is mainly divided 
into unit testing and end-to-end testing.

Unit testing is a kind of white-box testing method, mainly completed by developers. Developers design many 
cases of input and output to the test code according to their own code structure, with the minimum function 
module as a unit. The time spent on unit test may not even shorter than coding, but it is very effective to 
guarantee the quality of the code. It can also be used to ensure that fixing bugs or adding functionality 
will not cause a new bug.

For end-to-end testing, people tend to be more familiar with it. Testers write test cases according to a 
certain input and output as a type of black-box testing. The bug should be feedback to the developer and 
the developers must modify their code and submit to the testers. The end-to-end testing is usually carried 
out in the end of an iteration cycle.

In addition, the software review technology is very important. Coding needs peer review, requirements need 
to be reviewed and each stage of a software process needs to be reviewed to ensure the quality. At ordinary 
times walkthroughs technology may be used for informal review.
A very important point of quality assurance is: giving enough respect to quality assurance department. To 
ensure the results (testing report, etc.) of the quality assurance department have effective feedback and 
the development team must try their best to cooperate. It is an important enterprise culture.

QA is in the overall development context. In different processes, QA focuses on different things. Before 
coding, QA focuses on defect prevention. After coding, QA focus on defect removal. In the release and support 
process, it focuses on defect containment. I think it not only applies to the waterfall model but also some 
other models but the ways QA make an impact are different. QA scattered throughout all processes. Different 
test methods can be used in different processes to verify or validate their quality.


The above is my understanding of quality assurance of a software system.
